Isn't downtime just the opposite of uptime?
Why should we talk about it as a separate topic?
Downtime has some important caveats.
Most platforms are not entirely within your control.
You might use third-parties for aspects of your platform,
such as email delivery,
video streaming, data collection, and hosting.
Do any of these sound familiar?
Certainly at a minimum,
you know about AWS.
What if AWS goes down?
How can it be expected to account for all of these services?
You don't run them all yourself,
so you can't personally keep them up and running.
What do you do? You can choose third parties who themselves provide SLAs.
Then in your own contracts,
you can specify that you only use third parties with a minimum SLA threshold,
but that you are not responsible for the third party downtime.
Well, at least you can try.
Your customers may not accept that.
This is where you turn the negotiators within
your organization to work out all of the details so that
both parties and yourself understand what will and will not be your responsibilities.
Let's talk about some math.
If you provide a 99.9 percent SLAs to your customers and
your third parties all provide 99.9 percent SLAs to you,
you should be covered, right?
Only if all of that downtime completely overlaps.
If you happen to use all of your allotment of downtime in a month and even one of
your third parties uses any of
their allotment and their downtime doesn't fall within your downtime,
you just missed being up for 99.9 percent of the month.
Obviously, this problem just gets bigger as more third-parties that you use.
But doing away with third parties is likely not practical either.
So make sure you covered this case in writing in your agreements.